in his prime a male gelada can gather
round him a harem of six or seven wives
[Music]
sex causes a great deal of tension
because each male lives alongside other
hot-tempered tyrants who constantly
threatened to abduct his females this
male is still so wound up for teammates
to dissipate his stress in many primates
population is not many for reproduction
female geladas can't live with a high
level of aggression they want to be left
in peace to rear their offspring so
they've got ways of preventing their
despotic male from behaving too badly
inviting him to groom them and grooming
him calms tense situations picking
through each other's fur also reinforces
social bonds or friendships but it's
male starts to bully one of his wives
they all gang up and retaliate and the
tyrant doesn't always get his own way
yet paradoxically the females need
fierce guardians to protect them from
being sexually harassed by unattached
males there's no shortage of them gangs
of frustrated young bachelors lurk
around the edges of the troop sexually
mature they each yearn for their own
family of females and frequently make
trouble for everyone it's a universal
social problem how to control the
aggressive tendencies of young males
their rampaging causes chaos and
challenges the authority of the harem
holding males such meetings can only
lead to a simian showdown
[Music]
this male puts on an act of bravado he's
greatly outnumbered
[Music]
but their victory is shortly the Furious
male scatters the gang
[Music]
one day this tyrant will meet his High
Noon and lose his females but not today
[Music]
he broadcasts his triumphant wind to the
rest of the truth from the top of the
tree
[Music]
you